---
title: "Re-entry"
date: 2007-02-14T00:00:00-08:00
---

<p>I used to be an above-average programmer.  I started coding <a href="http://www.bbsdocumentary.com/">BBS</a> utilities in Pascal when I was 13, and eventually got to be pretty proficient with algorithms and problem solving.  I even won a team programming contest back in high school.  By the time I graduated from college I was proficient in C and C++, Java and Perl.  I was confident in my abilities, and even today I don't think I was unjustified in my optimism.</p>
<p>When I graduated and moved to <a href="http://www.google.com/maps?q=Sunnyvale,+CA&amp;sa=X&amp;oi=map&amp;ct=title">Sunnyvale</a> in 2000, I took a Technical Support job at Ariba. I was under the impression that the job would eventually allow for a transition into development after some time. But let's just say my timing was sub-optimal: the stock market, the job market, and the economy began swirling in the toilet the month I started, and I spent the next 4 years on the front lines supporting Ariba's procurement network and applications.  I worked with a great bunch of people, learned a lot and had some limited opportunities to write code, but I couldn't help but feel my skills slipping away.</p>
<p>In 2004 I took another job at another company, but it didn't deliver the development role it claimed to be offering.  Instead, it was heavy on FTP but light on Java; it demanded unreasonable personal sacrifice as the status quo.  While it is true I've learned quite a bit about Enterprise IT, system administration, project management and sales, deep down I know that tailing logs and copying files late on a Friday night can't be my raison d'tre.</p>
<p>So here I sit, many years since I've written code seriously; years after I accepted my fate and put my programming hat in mothballs. Yet the curious, creative fire still burns.  I still read development blogs and books; I still learn about new frameworks. Either I am in denial, or -- <em>maybe</em> -- I could relearn what I've forgotten? Train myself anew? Become the headstrong, independent and infinitely capable developer I thought I'd be?</p>
<p><em>Can I reestablish proficiency as a coder? I'm betting the farm on it.</em></p>
